## Synesthesia Design Document 
This design document goes over why we decided to use github user cwilso’s code, the new functions that control the light bulbs, and the HTML additions.

When we first began this project, we searched for other programmers’ Python code that would parse audio because we are most familiar with Python and felt that we could best accomplish our goals with this language. After extensive Google searching, however, we struggled to find Python code that would correlate audio to music notes and thus light bulb colors. We then discovered cwilso’s code that allowed us to even go further - use live music input in order to change the lightbulb colors, instead of simply WAV files. Cwilso’s code is in javascript, a less familiar language for us, but we thought, “Why reinvent the wheel?” Noting that cwilso’s code has the MIT License and allows free use, we decided to delve into javascript and add our own functionality to cwilso’s code.

In the pitchdetect.js we did not change any of cwilso’s code, but we added our own functions and modified cwilso’s updatepitch() function. All the new functions we created (at the end of the javascript file and the bulbOff() near the top) are meant to turn on the light bulb, turn it off, and change it to each color specified for that note. We realize that it is redundant to have so many different functions. We acknowledge that we could have created a submit form for the user to input a note or we could have set the buttons to send a note string to the javascript, but for time and simplicity’s sake we decided to first create these functions and decide later if we had the time to make the functions dynamic. 

A side tangent: from the code in the 370s to the 400s, we resorted to hard coding the values for the pitches because we could not find a faster way. We tried having two dictionaries, one holding lower bounds and the other holding the upper bounds, and then comparing the first value in each dictionary to the pitch, but we could neither get the for loop to work (to iterate through every value in each dictionary) and internet research suggested that this would be impossible. It only worked when we hard-coded the pitch ranges. 

Furthermore, we inserted code into specifically the updatepitch function because update pitch is where cwilso wrote the hertz number and note string to change in real time in the HTML. We were able to use those same hertz number and note string in our own code to correspond to the light bulbs.

In the HTML, we added a button for every single note in the octave so that users could see what color each note corresponds to. We felt that having 12 buttons would be more fun for the user rather than having him/her type in a note and submit a form, thus lengthening the time for the light bulb to turn on and change colors. Also, we decided to add buttons because we wanted to increase functionality for the light bulb; users can actually control the light bulb from the website, rather than only controlling it with their voices. If given more time, we would have added much more CSS and HTML so that the website would look nicer.
